in this lesson we're going to talk about
the functionality and usage of azure
dedicated hosts
now there's no such thing as the cloud
it's just someone else's pc we talk
about that as a joke quite a lot but
remember there's an element of truth to
that
behind the scenes hey i create a virtual
machine so i create a vm
but the reality is that vm is placed on
some physical host
there's a host there
on to which my vm is provisioned when i
start the resource if it's a vm scale
set aks node whatever it is it's running
on some host now azure by definition is
multi-tenant so if blue is my vm there's
absolutely a chance
that there's another vm and it's
definitely going to be the case
from another tenant
and there might be another vm of a
different size from
another tenant
now there's complete isolation through
hypervisor technologies through
software-defined networking through
other security mechanisms so there's no
chance they can interact but they are
sharing the same physical host
sometimes i don't want that maybe
there's certain requirements where i
need absolute physical location at the
host level so it's only vms from my
tenant
maybe there's some benefits around
licensing if i can actually then just
license the physical cpus of the box
like hybrid benefit so azure dedicated
host lets me do this
i can think about the idea that remember
there are regions
so if we just pick a certain region
we'll say it's east u.s
the first thing i do is i create a host
group now that host group can just be a
certain region or also maybe i'll create
that host group
in a certain availability zone that's
optional but i could if i wanted to
so i'll think about okay well
i'm going to create in my example in az1
i'm going to create a host group
and then what i do is i add host so i
create dedicated host instances
and i put them in the host group
so i'll go and add okay i'll add
one dedicated host now remember that
host lives on a rack there's obviously
racks and racks of servers in
the data centers and i can think of that
as a fault domain
so one of the things i can do is as i
add host to a host group i can say hey i
want to distribute them
over different fault domains i.e
different racks so in this case
just for simplicity i've added two hosts
to my host group and i put them in
different full domains but they're all
in az1
then i can go ahead and create vms or vm
scale sets and i'm going to target my
host or host group
for that provisioning so hey i go and
create a vm one goes there vm2 goes
there
vm3 goes there etcetera but it's only
vms that i own for my tenant no other
tenant can get provisioned onto those
boxes
now
when i create these hosts i create them
of a certain type so there's many
different types and the type i select
controls which type of vms can actually
exist on it now those vms can be of
different sizes remember within a skew
we have different sizes number of cpus
amount of memory so i can fill the box
up so maybe hey that was that size maybe
i create another one that's much bigger
that takes up more of the box
and then maybe that one as another small
one but they're all of the same type so
if we go and look at the pricing page
for dedicated host
it walks through
and you'll notice the name so this is
the type of dedicated host sku
and you'll notice it's the type of vms
so what's happening here is if i create
a dedicated host of this
sku
i can only put das v4 vms on it again
they could be different sizes
they're all of the same type so there's
all these different skus available of
host
that i would then fill up with vms of
the same sku
but they could be different sizes
so that's the whole point of azure
dedicated hosts
now there is another concept you may
hear about
and that's about
isolated
um vm sizes
with an isolated vm again i can think
about hey look there's other hosts
lots of hosts actually
it's not part of my actual host group
it's just a regular azure host so for
simplicity i'll actually draw it outside
of that there's another host over there
are certain vms that are so big
it takes up the entire host
so these isolated vm sizes i'm not using
hosts or host groups it's just it's so
big no one else is going to be on that
physical host because
a single vm takes up the whole box so
there's no chance of someone else being
on it
so if we jump over again
here we can see there are a number of
different isolated vm types
so it's all of these so if i create any
of these vm types
i will be on my own physical box because
these vms take up the entire box they're
huge
and so i don't have to worry about
sharing with anyone else
one nice thing about both
having the azure dedicated host and
these isolated vm sizes is i get to
control maintenance
i can specify a maintenance window
it's a rolling i think 35 days
and i get to pick so rather than me not
really having any control i get told
about it
but i can't control it because it's only
me
on these boxes i can actually use these
nice maintenance windows
to have more control
about when maintenance actually happens
so that's azure dedicated host and those
um
unique instant size virtual machines
where they're isolated and not sharing